README.md, before:

# tooly-composer-script

[![Minimum PHP Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/php-%3E%3D%205.6-8892BF.svg?style=flat-square)](https://php.net/)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/tm/tooly-composer-script/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/tm/tooly-composer-script)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/tm/tooly-composer-script/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/tm/tooly-composer-script)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/tommy-muehle/tooly-composer-script.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/tommy-muehle/tooly-composer-script)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/tommy-muehle/tooly-composer-script/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/tommy-muehle/tooly-composer-script)
[![Test Coverage](https://codeclimate.com/github/tommy-muehle/tooly-composer-script/badges/coverage.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/tommy-muehle/tooly-composer-script/coverage)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/tm/tooly-composer-script/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/tm/tooly-composer-script)
[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/tommy-muehle/tooly-composer-script.svg)](https://gitter.im/tommy-muehle/tooly-composer-script?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

With the tooly [composer-script](https://getcomposer.org/doc/articles/scripts.md) aka hook you can manage needed phar files, such as phpunit, in your composer.json.
Every phar file will be saved in the [composer binary directory](https://getcomposer.org/doc/articles/vendor-binaries.md). 

## Features

Make sure that all developers in your project get the required tools in the right version 
with the power of composer.

Optional with [GPG signature verification](https://www.gnupg.org/gph/en/manual/x135.html) for each tool.

## Example

For an quick example look at the [composer.json](composer.json#L57-L76) here.
 
## Install

To use the script just do the following single command:

*Note: There are no further dependencies in this library. Only PHP.*

```
composer require tm/tooly-composer-script
```

Then add the script in the composer.json under *"scripts"* with the event names you want to trigger.
For example:

```
...
"scripts": {
    "post-install-cmd": "Tooly\\ScriptHandler::installPharTools",
    "post-update-cmd": "Tooly\\ScriptHandler::installPharTools"
  },
...
```

Look [here](https://getcomposer.org/doc/articles/scripts.md#event-names) for more informations about composer events.

## Sample usage

The composer.json scheme has a part "extra" which is used for the script.
Its described [here](https://getcomposer.org/doc/04-schema.md#extra).

In this part you can add your needed phar tools under the key "tools".

```
...
"extra": {
    ...
    "tools": {
      "phpunit": {
        "url": "https://phar.phpunit.de/phpunit-5.5.0.phar",
        "sign-url": "https://phar.phpunit.de/phpunit-5.5.0.phar.asc"
      },
      "phpcpd": {
        "url": "https://phar.phpunit.de/phpcpd-2.0.4.phar",
        "only-dev": true
      },
      "security-checker": {
        "url": "http://get.sensiolabs.org/security-checker.phar",
        "force-replace": true
      },
    }
    ...
  }
...
```

## Parameters

### url (required)

After you add the name of the tool as key, you need only one further parameter. The *"url"*.
The url can be a link to a specific version, such as x.y.z, or a link to the latest version for this phar.

### sign-url (optional, default none)

If this parameter is set tooly checks if the PHAR file in url has a valid signature by 
comparing signature in sign-url.

This option is useful if you want to be sure that the tool is from the expected author. 
For the check you need a GPG binary in your $PATH variable.

This check often fails if you dont has the public key from the tool author 
in your GPG keychain. 

### force-replace (optional, default false)

Every time you update or install with composer the phar tools are checked. You are asked if you want to overwrite
the existing phar if the remote and local phar has not the same checksum.

Except you set this parameter. 

This option is useful if you has a link to the latest version of a tool and always want a replacement.
Or you run composer in non-interactive mode (for example in a CI system) and want a replacement.

But is also useful if some require-dev library has one of the tools as own requirement.
 
### only-dev (optional, default true)

This parameter means that this phar is only needed in developing mode.
So the command ```composer [install|update] --no-dev``` ignores this phar tool.

## A note to PhpStorm or other IDE users

To furthermore have auto-suggestion you should set the "include_path" option in the project.
![PhpStorm setting](resources/phpstorm-setting.png)

## Contributing

Please refer to [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for information on how to contribute.

Commit message:

Add further note to README.md

README.md, after:

# tooly-composer-script

[![Minimum PHP Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/php-%3E%3D%205.6-8892BF.svg?style=flat-square)](https://php.net/)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/tm/tooly-composer-script/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/tm/tooly-composer-script)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/tm/tooly-composer-script/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/tm/tooly-composer-script)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/tommy-muehle/tooly-composer-script.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/tommy-muehle/tooly-composer-script)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/tommy-muehle/tooly-composer-script/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/tommy-muehle/tooly-composer-script)
[![Test Coverage](https://codeclimate.com/github/tommy-muehle/tooly-composer-script/badges/coverage.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/tommy-muehle/tooly-composer-script/coverage)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/tm/tooly-composer-script/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/tm/tooly-composer-script)
[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/tommy-muehle/tooly-composer-script.svg)](https://gitter.im/tommy-muehle/tooly-composer-script?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

With the tooly [composer-script](https://getcomposer.org/doc/articles/scripts.md) aka hook you can manage needed phar files, such as phpunit, in your composer.json.
Every phar file will be saved in the [composer binary directory](https://getcomposer.org/doc/articles/vendor-binaries.md). 

## Features

Make sure that all developers in your project get the required tools in the right version 
with the power of composer.

Optional with [GPG signature verification](https://www.gnupg.org/gph/en/manual/x135.html) for each tool.

## Example

For an quick example look at the [composer.json](composer.json#L57-L76) here.
 
## Install

To use the script just do the following single command:

*Note: There are no further dependencies in this library. Only PHP.*

```
composer require tm/tooly-composer-script
```

Then add the script in the composer.json under *"scripts"* with the event names you want to trigger.
For example:

```
...
"scripts": {
    "post-install-cmd": "Tooly\\ScriptHandler::installPharTools",
    "post-update-cmd": "Tooly\\ScriptHandler::installPharTools"
  },
...
```

Look [here](https://getcomposer.org/doc/articles/scripts.md#event-names) for more informations about composer events.

## Sample usage

The composer.json scheme has a part "extra" which is used for the script.
Its described [here](https://getcomposer.org/doc/04-schema.md#extra).

In this part you can add your needed phar tools under the key "tools".

```
...
"extra": {
    ...
    "tools": {
      "phpunit": {
        "url": "https://phar.phpunit.de/phpunit-5.5.0.phar",
        "sign-url": "https://phar.phpunit.de/phpunit-5.5.0.phar.asc"
      },
      "phpcpd": {
        "url": "https://phar.phpunit.de/phpcpd-2.0.4.phar",
        "only-dev": true
      },
      "security-checker": {
        "url": "http://get.sensiolabs.org/security-checker.phar",
        "force-replace": true
      },
    }
    ...
  }
...
```

## Parameters

### url (required)

After you add the name of the tool as key, you need only one further parameter. The *"url"*.
The url can be a link to a specific version, such as x.y.z, or a link to the latest version for this phar.

### sign-url (optional, default none)

If this parameter is set tooly checks if the PHAR file in url has a valid signature by 
comparing signature in sign-url.

This option is useful if you want to be sure that the tool is from the expected author. 

*Note: There are no further dependencies in this library. Only PHP.*
For the check you need a further [requirement](https://packagist.org/packages/tm/gpg-verifier) and a GPG binary in your $PATH variable.
 
You can add the requirement with this command:
```composer require tm/gpg-verifier```

This check often fails if you dont has the public key from the tool author 
in your GPG keychain. 

### force-replace (optional, default false)

Every time you update or install with composer the phar tools are checked. You are asked if you want to overwrite
the existing phar if the remote and local phar has not the same checksum.

Except you set this parameter. 

This option is useful if you has a link to the latest version of a tool and always want a replacement.
Or you run composer in non-interactive mode (for example in a CI system) and want a replacement.

But is also useful if some require-dev library has one of the tools as own requirement.
 
### only-dev (optional, default true)

This parameter means that this phar is only needed in developing mode.
So the command ```composer [install|update] --no-dev``` ignores this phar tool.

## A note to PhpStorm or other IDE users

To furthermore have auto-suggestion you should set the "include_path" option in the project.
![PhpStorm setting](resources/phpstorm-setting.png)

## Contributing

Please refer to [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for information on how to contribute.
